190628
Description

According to data, cancer is the most significant factor when it comes to the mortality rate in Taiwan. In fact, cancer takes the first place of the reason of death for over thirty years.

We all know there is a high correlation between cancer and cell mutation.
Furthermore, the correlation between cell mutation and the outer source of an organism encounter in daily life.
Thus, NCTU_Formosa 2019 design a device that detects the danger in the environment. By using E. coli as our pioneer, we can detect the cell mutation rate in anywhere we want. Therefore, the danger coefficient could be quantified.

Our designed E. coli carries different suicide genes. We keep tracking the number of colonies, once the mutation happened in the suicide region, it would have survived. Outnumber of the colonies, otherwise, it dies.
The quorum system in the gene circuit will be served as an indicator. It helps us to track the number of the colony. The fluorescent signal connected with the QS system allows itself to be observed by machine. The data can be processed by our model to get a more accurate result. We expect to build a device that simple as a danger detector but with our complex design. The APP comes with will also be portable when the device is not convenient for the circumstance.

Inspriation

NCTU Formosa has years of iGEM experience. Dealing with E.coli has become our daily routine. Once upon a time, an experiment related to the suicide gene was performed. We discovered that the number of colonies would not always drop to zero as we expected. It bounces back whenever our colonies reach the bottom.

Like a phoenix, reborn from ashes.

We consider this phenomenon as an opportunity, a blessing from nature. Like the phoenix Fawkes in “Harry Potter” serve as a guardian. The precious part about this experiment is that it opens up a whole new territory that mutation could do its possibility is infinite.

Thus, we design a unique experiment of E.coli with a suicide gene to collaborate with multiple signaling systems as a hazard detector. When exposed to a dangerous environment, the mutation in E.coli occurred more frequently. The faster it mutates, the less function will the suicide gene express.
